#
# GPL HEADER START
#
# DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
#
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
# it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 only,
# as published by the Free Software Foundation.
#
# This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
# WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
# General Public License version 2 for more details (a copy is included
# in the LICENSE file that accompanied this code).
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
# version 2 along with this program; If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses
#
# Please  visit http://www.xyratex.com/contact if you need additional information or
# have any questions.
#
# GPL HEADER END
#
# Copyright 2012 Xyratex Technology Limited
#
# Author: Roman Grigoryev<Roman_Grigoryev@xyratex.com>
#
=pod

=head1 Xperior harness installation and preparation guide

=head2 Source layout description

=over 12

=item *

B<bin>    -  perl application directory

=item *

B<build>  - files for making perl modules distribution

=item *

B<lib>    - Xperior perl libraries, for overriding use PERL5LIB env variable. runtest.pl script try to find it as C<../lib>.

=item *
B<mongo>  - set of tools for uploading Xperior yaml results to Mongo database.

=item *

B<doc>    - pod help files

=item *

B<html>   - html documentation generated from pod files by L<gendocs.html>

=item *
B<spec>   - RPM spec files for building rpm packages

=item *

B<testds> - test descriptions directory, see L<XperiorUserGuide.html>.

=item *

B<t>      - internal unit tests for Xperior, allow quickly test regressions. Could be useful for testing how work after installation, see L<XperiorDeveloperGuide> for details.

=item *

B<systemcfg.yaml> - default location for file with system configuration definition, see explanation in L<XperiorUserGuide>.

=back

=head2 Dependecies and additional packages

Xperior directly uses some Perl libraries which could not be included in your
Perl distribution by default. Certainly, it depends on your perl setup and
cannot be generalised for any system.

List of external packages are used by core Xperior libs and scripts (C<lib/Xperior> C<bin>)

    Autodia
    Log::Log4perl
    YAML
    Error
    Carp
    Cwd
    File::chdir
    List::MoreUtils
    MooseX::Clone
    Proc::Simple
    TAP::Formatter::HTML
    Try::Tiny
    XML::Simple
    YAML
    accessors
    YAML::Syck

Configuration checker script C<checkyaml.pl> contains Rx libraries and
has also its own dependencies:

    Data::OptList
    Number::Tolerant

Unit test actively use package

    Test::Able

B<Note: current description doesn't include mongo uploader information.>

=head3 Steps for install packages from CPAN

=over 12

=item 1. Install perl and cpan, and initiate cpan. Often it
already done.

=item 2. Use CPAN for installing  these libraries from list above,
e.g. C<cpan install YAML>

    Autodia
    Log::Log4perl
    YAML
    Moose
    File::chdir
    TAP::Formatter::HTML
    Proc::Simple
    MooseX-Clone
    XML::Simple
    YAML::Syck
    Number::Tolerant
    Test::Able

=item 3. Approximate list of packages which will be installed

On RH6/SL6 nodes with default installation these packages will be
installed from CPAN (nesting level means dependencies ):

    YAML
        ExtUtils::MakeMaker
    Autodia
        XML::Simple
        XML::SAX
            XML::NamespaceSupport
            XML::SAX::Base
        XML::NamespaceSupport
        XML::SAX::Expat
    Template
        Template::Toolkit
        AppConfig
    Moose
        Dist::CheckConflicts
            Test::Fatal
                Try::Tiny
            Sub::Exporter
                Data::OptList
                    Test::Simple
                    Test::More
                    Params::Util
                    Sub::Install
                Test::More
                Params::Util
                Sub::Install
            Sub::Exporter
            List::MoreUtils
        Test::Requires
        Package::DeprecatedManager
        Package::Stash::XS
        MRO::Compat
        Task::Weaken
        Class::Load::XS
            Module::Build
            Module::Implementation
                Module::Runtime
            Class::Load
        Evan::Closure
        Class::Load
        Package::Stash
        Sub::Name
        Carp
        Devel::GlobalDestruction
        Perl::OSType (upgraded)
        Module::Metadata (upgraded)

=back

=cut

#=head3 Steps for installing Perl modules from rpm packages for Scientific
#Linux release 6.0(should work for Redhat/Fedora too).
#
#=over 12
#
#=item 1. Create and switch on external repository with external libraries. TODO.
#
#Create new file in e.g  B</etc/yum.repos.d/xperior.repo> with content
#
#    [xperior]
#    name=Xperior repo
#    baseurl=<SERVER>
#    gpgcheck=0
#
#As B<SERVER> set address with GitHub Xperior support repository url.
#
#=item 2. Install these rpm packages and its dependencies via C<yum>
#
#    perl-Autodia.noarch
#    perl-Log-Log4perl.noarch
#    perl-YAML.noarch
#    perl-Moose.x86_64
#    perl-File-chdir.noarch
#    perl-TAP-Formatter-HTML.noarch
#    perl-Proc-Simple.noarch
#    perl-MooseX-Clone.noarch
#    perl-XML-Simple.noarch
#    perl-YAML-Syck.x86_64
#    perl-Number-Tolerant-1.601-1.noarch
#    perl-Test-Able-0.11-1.noarch
#
#=back
#
#=head2 Make RPM
#
#Sources could be packed to rpm for Redhat/Fedora distros. After
#build rpm packages could be installed via rpm command as usually.
#These packages don't deeply tested and could be outdated.
#
#=over 12
#
#=item * Generate documentation
=head2 Generating documentation

Just use special utility for generate html documentation from POD
in directory C<$WD/html> (C<$WD> - Xperior  source directory)

    cd $WD
    bin/gendocs.pl

=cut

#=item * Make RPM for harness and main modules
#
#
#These steps prepare standard perl module distribution and make
#rpm for core Xperior part.
#
#    cd $WD
#    perl build/Makefile.harness.PL
#    make dist
#    cp Xperior-harness-0.0.2.tar.gz ~/rpm/SOURCES/ (check actual archive name)
#    PERL5LIB=$WD/lib rpmbuild -ba ${WD}/spec/xperior-harness.spec`
#    make clean
#
#=item * Make  RPM for Lustre tests package
#
#
#These steps prepare standard perl module distribution and make
#rpm for Lustre acceptance-small tests sets.
#
#
#    cd $WD
#    perl build/Makefile.lustre.PL
#    make dist
#    cp Xperior-lustretests-0.0.2.tar ~/rpm/SOURCES/ (check actual archive name)
#    PERL5LIB=$WD/lib rpmbuild  --define -ba ${WD}/spec/xperior-lustretests.spec
#    make clean
#
#=back
#
#For building own rpm packages for external libraries was used
#utility L<http://perl.arix.com/cpan2rpm/>.
#
#=cut
